CIP-0124? | Extend token metadata for translations (#488)
cardano-foundation/CIPs: CIP-token-metadata-translations/README.md

---

> CIP: ?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
CIP: 124
```

> Title: Extend token metadata for translations

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Title: CIP-25 - Extend token metadata for translations
```

might make sense to do something like this, as this is a strictly CIP25 extension

Category: Metadata
Status: Proposed
Authors:
    - Vito Melchionna <info@granadapool.com>
    - Aaron Schmid <aaron@fortech.group>
    - Carolina Isler @LaPetiteADA <lapetiteada@granadapool.com>
Implementors: []
Discussions:
    - https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/pull/488
Created: 2023-03-19
License: CC-BY-4.0
---

## Abstract
This proposal defines an additional property to the metadata standard for tokens (NFTs and FTs) to support text localization.

## Motivation: why is this CIP necessary?
Current token metadata only supports a single hardcoded language (mostly English), which limits the accessibility to a certain culture. To get closer to mass adoption, we need to bring down language barriers by extending the current standard to support translations. This is especially relevant for games, metaverse solutions, and RealFi use cases of NFTs.

## Specification

> This proposal follows the same specifications as [CIP-0025](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/blob/master/CIP-0025).

Reviewer 2: Probably want to be specific here, for which version of CIP-25 this applicable to https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/tree/master/CIP-0025#cddl

Reviewer 3: Both versions. This CIP would improve the metadata section.

    
The name of a culture consists of its [[ISO-639]](https://www.iso.org/standard/4767.html) language code with small letters and its [[ISO-3166]](https://www.iso.org/standard/63545.html) country/region code with capital letter separated by a dash "-". For instance, this proposal was written in "en-US": English with the US culture.

This convention is compatible with most operative systems (Linux and Windows) and widely used translation software.
    

> ### Proposed structure

Reviewer 2: As this contains on-chain data, I believe it must also have a CDDL specification (see [here](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/blob/master/CIP-0001/README.md?plain=1#L83C541-L83C620)).

Author: Done!

To access the localized strings from the fetched metadata for a native asset, we can simply access the JSON properties from the front end by using the user's selected culture:

```
const response = await fetch(`${<BASE_URL>}/policyId/${<policyId>}`);
            
const metadata = response.json();
const policy = metadata["721"][<policy_id>];

function getPolicyString(policy, key, culture="en") {
    return policy["strings"][culture][key] 
        ? policy["strings"][culture][key] 
        : policy[key]; // default value (not localized)
}

function getAssetString(policy, asset, key, culture="en") {
    return policy[asset]["strings"][culture][key] 
        ? policy[asset]["strings"][culture][key] 
        : policy[asset][key]; // default value (not localized)
}

console.log(`Default policy property: ${getPolicyString(policy, <policy_property>)}`);
console.log(`Localized policy property: ${getPolicyString(policy, <policy_property>, "it-IT")}`);
console.log(`Default asset name: ${getAssetString(policy, <asset_name>, "name")}`);
console.log(`Localized asset name: ${getAssetString(policy, <asset_name>, "name", "de-CH")}`);
```

>      

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
     
## Rationale: how does this CIP achieve its goals?

```
Please add a rationale section!

        : policy[key]; // default value (not localized)
}

function getAssetString(policy, asset, key, culture="en") {
    return policy[asset]["strings"][culture][key] 
        ? policy[asset]["strings"][culture][key] 
        : policy[asset][key]; // default value (not localized)
}

console.log(`Default policy property: ${getPolicyString(policy, <policy_property>)}`);
console.log(`Localized policy property: ${getPolicyString(policy, <policy_property>, "it-IT")}`);
console.log(`Default asset name: ${getAssetString(policy, <asset_name>, "name")}`);
console.log(`Localized asset name: ${getAssetString(policy, <asset_name>, "name", "de-CH")}`);
         
```
     
## Path to Active

### Acceptance Criteria
- NFT metadata standard extension covers all existing localization needs and use cases on web2.
- Implementation is compliant with JSON conventions.
- Implementation is compliant with the [[ISO-639]](https://www.iso.org/standard/4767.html) standard for language code, and the [[ISO-3166]](https://www.iso.org/standard/63545.html) standard for country/region code.
- Access to localized strings is easy and logical from a coding perspective.
            
### Implementation Plan

> Add this new standard to all relevant documentation and references for web3 developers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Propose this method in documentation and references for web3 developers.

```
1. Here and elsewhere I would suggest avoiding the term "standard" since only adoption & longevity can characterise it as such.  Until that time comes, this is only a "method" or a "proposal".
2. All items in the Path to Active would work well as tickboxes; see the GitHub formatting and/or more recent CIPs to see how we've been doing these, which would suit your CIP's progression from `Proposed` to `Active` as they are ticked,

> NMKR has supported this CIP with peer feedback, and in the future with a pilot implementation of the new standard.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NMKR has supported this CIP with peer feedback, and in the future with a pilot implementation of this localization method.
```
@granada-pool I don't think we can use the term "standard" here because of the multiple ways this problem might be addressed.  The above is one idea which would also be specific about what would be implemented.

Author: I agree! There are indeed several methods to solve this. Although, I really liked the idea of being a bit "aggressive" or "arrogant" and call it a **standard**, just like Ethereum took the liberty of creating the _ERC721 Metadata Standard_ for their NFTs, which has been consolidated by [OpenSea ](https://docs.opensea.io/docs/metadata-standards), and it's even used in Cardano's NFTs. Based on my experience in web2 text localization, this approach is quite solid, and since Cardano would be the first chain ever addressing this language barrier in the space, why not call it a _Cardano standard_? Specially, if NMKR will eventually become larger than OpenSea. 😉

Reviewer: Then indeed we could wait until we see other community members publicly calling it a "standard" as was the case with ERC721.  As it is now this is just the most promising _candidate_ for a localisation standard. 😉

> NMKR has supported this CIP with peer feedback, and in the future with a pilot implementation of this localization method.

Reviewer: @Padierfind (if you are still the appropriate contact for NMKR) please validate this if you can, along with any other contributions you can make to the review of this proposal (echoing my earlier request from https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/pull/488#pullrequestreview-1398114410).
